What is Azure Synapse Service?
Azure Synapse is an enterprise analytics service that accelerates time to insight across data warehouses and big data systems. Azure Synapse brings together the best of SQL technologies used in enterprise data warehousing, Spark technologies used for big data, Data Explorer for log and time series analytics, Pipelines for data integration and ETL/ELT, and deep integration with other Azure services such as Power BI, CosmosDB, and AzureML.

What is Industry-leading SQL?

Synapse SQL is a distributed query system for T-SQL that enables data warehousing and data virtualization scenarios and extends T-SQL to address streaming and machine learning scenarios.

Synapse SQL offers both serverless and dedicated resource models. For predictable performance and cost, create dedicated SQL pools to reserve processing power for data stored in SQL tables. For unplanned or bursty workloads, use the always-available, serverless SQL endpoint.
Use built-in streaming capabilities to land data from cloud data sources into SQL tables
Integrate AI with SQL by using machine learning models to score data using the T-SQL PREDICT function.


What is Azure Synapse workspace?

A Synapse workspace is a securable collaboration boundary for doing cloud-based enterprise analytics in Azure. A workspace is deployed in a specific region and has an associated ADLS Gen2 account and file system (for storing temporary data). A workspace is under a resource group.

A workspace allows you to perform analytics with SQL and Apache spark. Resources available for SQL and Spark analytics are organized into SQL and Spark pools.

What is a Linked Service?

A workspace can contain any number of Linked service, essentially connection strings that define the connection information needed for the workspace to connect to external resources.

What is Synapse ML?

SynapseML (previously known as MMLSpark), is an open-source library that simplifies the creation of massively scalable machine learning (ML) pipelines. It is an ecosystem of tools used to expand the Apache Spark framework in several new directions. SynapseML unifies several existing machine learning frameworks and new Microsoft algorithms into a single, scalable API that’s usable across Python, R, Scala, .NET, and Java. To learn more, see the key features of SynapseML.

What are Pipelines in Azure Synapse?

Pipelines are how Azure Synapse provides Data Integration - allowing you to move data between services and orchestrate activities.

Pipeline are logical grouping of activities that perform a task together.

Activities defines actions within a Pipeline to perform on data such as copying data, running a Notebook or a SQL script.
Data flows are a specific kind of activity that provide a no-code experience for doing data transformation that uses Synapse Spark under-the-covers.

Trigger - Executes a pipeline. It can be run manually or automatically (schedule, tumbling window or event-based)
Integration dataset - Named view of data that simply points or references the data to be used in an activity as input and output. It belongs to a Linked Service.
